1. [**Introduction**](1.%20Introduction.md)
2. [Overview of certifications](2.%20Overview%20of%20certifications.md)
3. [Creating certification Profile](3.%20Creating%20a%20certification%20profile.md)
4. [Ordering an exam and how to redeem exam vouchers](4.%20Ordering%20an%20exam%20and%20how%20to%20redeem%20exam%20vouchers.md)
5. [Microsoft Certification dashboard and PearsonVUE portal](5.%20Microsoft%20certification%20dashboard%20and%20PearsonVUE%20portal.md)
6. [How to take a Microsoft Exam](%20%20%20%20%20%20How%20to%20take%20Microsoft%20Exams.md)
7. [Official Microsoft study materials](7.%20Official%20Microsoft%20study%20materials.md)
8. [Free or discounted voucher opportunities](8.%20Free%20or%20discounted%20voucher%20opportunities.md)
9. [Opportunities for students](9.%20Opportunities%20for%20students.md)
10. [Certification Renewal](X.%20Certification%20renewal.md)
11. [Information for Microsoft Partner Employees](XI.%20Information%20for%20Microsoft%20Partner%20Employees.md)


**What are Microsoft Cloud Certifications?**

Microsoft Cloud Certification are worldwide recognized certifications that show you have knowledge of different areas of Microsoft Cloud. As any other certifications, you shouldn't be taking them to learn or study new areas, you should learn those areas and certify your knowledge in them because having bunch of certifications but actually having none real-world experience won't provide many benefits to your career or job seeking.

**Why should you get Microsoft Cloud Certifications?**

* You will have an advantage over other job seekers who don't have them
* Helps go through the HR filter and makes you more attractive to recruiters
* Microsoft Partner companies receive benefits from Microsoft by employing certified individuals
* Bigger scale projects or government contracts sometimes require employees to be certified in the areas

**How to get started?**

First you need to create a Microsoft Certification profile. You can find the tutorial here: [**Creating Certification Profile**](%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20Creating%20Certification%20Profile.md).  Then you can choose which area/s of Microsoft Cloud you are interested in.

For example, I am certificated in Azure, M365 and Security, Compliance and Identity and I have passed fundamentals exams in all 5 areas because it will come in handy when a customer asks for example about compatibility with Power Apps and you know the basics of the platform.

I personally recommend everyone to take all the fundamental exams because all of them are free except MS-900 and give you great insight.

**The options are:**

* **Microsoft Azure** \- Azure is a cloud computing platform where you rent computer power from Microsoft datacenters
* **Microsoft 365** \- M365 is a modern workplace ecosystem which includes identities, collaboration and email services and device management
* **Dynamics 365** \- D365 is a product line of enterprise resource planning (ERP) and customer relationship management (CRM) intelligent business applications
* **Power Platform** \- Power Platform is a line of business intelligence, app development, and app connectivity software applications. Microsoft developed the Power Fx low-code programming language for expressing logic across the Power Platform.
* **Microsoft Security, Compliance and Identity** \- Microsoft cloud Security, Compliance and Identity is a set of tools which protect and govern the whole Microsoft Cloud

If you aren't able to choose at this point, don't worry. Microsoft offers introductory exams into each area.

**Sources:**

[Why get certified? | Microsoft Learn](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/certifications/posts/microsoft-learn-why-get-certified)

[Microsoft Certifications | Microsoft Learn](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/certifications/)
