1. [Introduction](1.%20Introduction.md)
2. [Overview of certifications](2.%20Overview%20of%20certifications.md)
3. [Creating certification Profile](3.%20Creating%20a%20certification%20profile.md)
4. [Ordering an exam and how to redeem exam vouchers](4.%20Ordering%20an%20exam%20and%20how%20to%20redeem%20exam%20vouchers.md)
5. [Microsoft Certification dashboard and PearsonVUE portal](5.%20Microsoft%20certification%20dashboard%20and%20PearsonVUE%20portal.md)
6. [How to take a Microsoft Exam](%20%20%20%20%20%20How%20to%20take%20Microsoft%20Exams.md)
7. [Official Microsoft study materials](7.%20Official%20Microsoft%20study%20materials.md)
8. [**Free or discounted voucher opportunities**](8.%20Free%20or%20discounted%20voucher%20opportunities.md)
9. [Opportunities for students](9.%20Opportunities%20for%20students.md)
10. [Certification Renewal](X.%20Certification%20renewal.md)
11. [Information for Microsoft Partner Employees](XI.%20Information%20for%20Microsoft%20Partner%20Employees.md)

As Microsoft is trying to get more people to learn about cloud there are lots of opportunities on how to get exam vouchers for free or with a discount. I am really closely monitoring all of the possible ways to get free vouchers since $160 is $160

# 100% off

**Microsoft** [**Build**](https://aka.ms/buildcsc) **and** [**Ignite**](https://aka.ms/ignitecsc) **Cloud Skills Challenges** \- Microsoft Build usually happens in Fall and Ignite in Spring. Historically both of the events end with a Cloud Skills Challenge.

* You enter the challenge and will have the option to complete one of the predetermined learning paths. You don't actually need to read those or answer the questions correctly at the end of modules, so if you don't have much time you can skip through the content and read it during your preparation later.
* The voucher is usually valid for the next 6 months, after that you will be unable to reschedule it any further (it is the final deadline) and you can only use the voucher code for the exams that are eligible for that specific challenge event.
* In the past vouchers were universal, that has changed at Ignite 2021. You can pick any exam from the available exam list for the challenge so you can for example do SC-200 modules and take SC-300 exam.

# Partial Discount

[**Microsoft Enterprise Skills Initiative**](https://esi.microsoft.com/) **50% off** \- If your company is a big Microsoft customer or partner, there is a high chance your company is enrolled into this program. You can check it by visiting the URL and typing in your work email address. You get access to:

* Live training by Microsoft Certified Trainers
* Microsoft official MeasureUp practice tests (being slowly replaced by Microsoft's new practice assessments)
* And 50% off vouchers for nearly every cloud exam Microsoft has created

[**Microsoft Cloud Skills Challenge - 30 Days to Learn It**](https://aka.ms/30-Days-To-Learn-It) **50% off** \- Reliably with us for over 2 years, 30 days to learn it gives out 50% off vouchers if you complete the required Microsoft Learn modules within 30 days.
