1. [Introduction](1.%20Introduction.md)
2. [Overview of certifications](2.%20Overview%20of%20certifications.md)
3. [Creating certification Profile](3.%20Creating%20a%20certification%20profile.md)
4. [Ordering an exam and how to redeem exam vouchers](4.%20Ordering%20an%20exam%20and%20how%20to%20redeem%20exam%20vouchers.md)
5. [Microsoft Certification dashboard and PearsonVUE portal](5.%20Microsoft%20certification%20dashboard%20and%20PearsonVUE%20portal.md)
6. [How to take a Microsoft Exam](%20%20%20%20%20%20How%20to%20take%20Microsoft%20Exams.md)
7. [Official Microsoft study materials](7.%20Official%20Microsoft%20study%20materials.md)
8. [**Opportunities for students**](9.%20Opportunities%20for%20students.md)
9. [Certification Renewal](X.%20Certification%20renewal.md)
10. [Information for Microsoft Partner Employees](XI.%20Information%20for%20Microsoft%20Partner%20Employees.md)

---

# Opportunities for Students

Microsoft offers a lot of resources to get students into the cloud, here are some opportunities that Microsoft offers.

[**Azure for Students**](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/free/students/) \- Similar to the Free Azure Account but better. If you have an email address from your school, you should be eligible for this offer. Credit card isn't needed.
You get:
- 100$ in azure credits for 12 months (renewable if you are still a student)
- Various free Azure services for 12 months
- Product keys for various Microsoft products. To access these keys, go to [Azure](https://portal.azure.com), search **Education** in to search bar on top. In the **Education** resource, go to **Software** and just hit Claim Key on the products. I recommend copying those keys over so you don't lose them (If you get an error after claiming a lot of them, wait 24h)
  
[**Student exam discount**](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/certifications/student-discounts) \- If you pick Student as a Job title in your certification profile and verify your status, you will be eligible for discounted Microsoft exam prices. It is 30% off for fundamental exams and 45% off for role-based exams. This discount is stackable with vouchers so you can add further 50-80% off and take the exam for a really low price.

[**Microsoft Learn Student Ambassadors**](https://studentambassadors.microsoft.com/) \- If you are enrolled at university, you can apply to this program. There are a lot of benefits besides the opportunity for personal growth. For example: Azure credit, Visual Studio Enterprise subscription, Exam vouchers or if you advance to the latest tier, you may be invited into the [Microsoft MVP program](https://mvp.microsoft.com/).

[**University credits for certifications**](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/certifications/college-credit) \- If your university allows it, you can gain credits for your certifications. There are also credits for fundamental exams which are really easy to obtain.
