1. [Introduction](1.%20Introduction.md)
2. [Overview of certifications](2.%20Overview%20of%20certifications.md)
3. [Creating certification Profile](3.%20Creating%20a%20certification%20profile.md)
4. [Ordering an exam and how to redeem exam vouchers](4.%20Ordering%20an%20exam%20and%20how%20to%20redeem%20exam%20vouchers.md)
5. [Microsoft Certification dashboard and PearsonVUE portal](5.%20Microsoft%20certification%20dashboard%20and%20PearsonVUE%20portal.md)
6. [How to take a Microsoft Exam](%20%20%20%20%20%20How%20to%20take%20Microsoft%20Exams.md)
7. [Official Microsoft study materials](7.%20Official%20Microsoft%20study%20materials.md)
8. [Opportunities for students](9.%20Opportunities%20for%20students.md)
9. [**Certification Renewal**](X.%20Certification%20renewal.md)
10. [Information for Microsoft Partner Employees](XI.%20Information%20for%20Microsoft%20Partner%20Employees.md)

# Certification Renewal

Microsoft has changed the certification renewal process so now instead of having to take the certification exam/s every 2 years, you just have to complete renewal assessment every year.

You only renew certifications so if you for example earned Azure Solutions Architect Expert certification by passing the AZ-303 and AZ-304 you only need to do one assessment for the certification. It doesn't matter that the exams changed in the meantime as long as the certification itself isn't being retired.

You also don't need to hold the prerequisite certification for you to renew expert certifications, those are not tied to each other. But it is highly recommended to renew all certifications because the process is way easier than if you had to take the exams in the future (also the system is broken so you have to create tickets to be able to take the exams again and to get the certification manually renewed).

Exams themselves don't expire which means you have as much time as you need to complete the certification. The only issue is when the exam is being retired, you will either have to complete the certification before that happens or you will need to pass the new exams all over again. 

Renewal assessment:

* Consists of around 25-40 questions (depending on the question bank you randomly get)
* It is an open book test so you can freely use the internet to help you with the answering (the questions are under the same NDA as the exam ones so don't copy paste them anywhere like google or github)
* Has no time limit to complete it
* After the initial 2 attempts you have to wait 24h before attempting it again
* You will get the chance to pass the assessment 180 days before the certification expires so you get a lot of chances and losing the certificate is only caused because you didn't want to do it
* Shows you the assessment areas and how you did in them
* Is free!

You can access the renewals in your certification dashboard here: [https://aka.ms/certdashboard](https://aka.ms/certdashboard)

**Sources**

[Renew your Microsoft Certifications | Microsoft Learn](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/certifications/renew-your-microsoft-certification)

[Renew your Microsoft Certifications - FAQ | Microsoft Learn](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/certifications/renew-your-microsoft-certification-faq)

[Exams don't expire | Microsoft Certification Support](https://trainingsupport.microsoft.com/en-us/mcp/forum/all/is-there-any-time-limit-to-complete-the/4e885c43-bcde-44ce-a685-f4c3adf9f4dc)

